README

Hi! Thank you for using my trajectory calculator.


HOW TO USE:

The calculator takes up to six inputs:

	Mass (in kilograms)
	Cross-sectional area (in square meters)
	Drag coefficient (dimensionless constant)
	Launch speed (in meters per second)
	Launch angle (in degrees)
	Initial height (in meters)

Click "Calculate" to get a visualization of the object's trajectory.
Click the graph itself to see how the object's speed changes over time.

USAGE TIPS:

The physics behind the app only hold for velocities under Mach 3 or so and altitudes inside the troposphere. Should you be using this for hypervelocity and/or ultra-high altitude calculations, you are probably doing something far beyond this calculator's capabilities. This is meant as a visualization tool to help users understand what effects certain factors have on air resistance, not as a modeling tool for military-grade hardware or rocket science. If you are doing those things, consult MATLAB, not a college freshman's introductory computer science project.

The calculator should stop you from doing anything heinous with the inputs. Should you give ridiculous values, you'll probably get ridiculous inputs. Remember, this is a model, not a substitute for experimentation. It's really good for everyday scenarios, but extreme inputs give useless data.

If you're unhappy with the resolution of the data and are feeling adventurous, go into calculate.js and mess with the step-size-setting functions. I intentionally left out a resolution input field because I did not want users to crash the app by setting the resolution too high.

The little ball that rides on the line moves in real time, no matter the framerate. Should you pick a very very small arc, it will most definitely move too quickly to see. Should you pick a very large arc, you'll be waiting a while. Its color also corresponds to its speed.

For fun, try plugging in the following inputs:

Mass = 0.145
Area = 0.004
Coefficient = 0.36
Speed = 47
Angle = 35

The first person to tell me what this models gets a prize.
